A number of JSON-based email access protocols have been developed that
are proprietary, non-standard, and incompatible with each other. These
protocols are proliferating due to existing standards being insufficient
or poorly suited to the environments they are operating in, particularly
mobile and webmail.

The use of multiple protocols to perform actions within a single
application creates significant support challenges, as users may get a
variety of partial failure modes (for example, can receive email but
cannot send new messages). This is further exacerbated if the different
protocols are authenticated separately.

JMAP specifies the interactions between email clients and mail stores,
providing an alternative to IMAP and SMTP submission. The JMAP working
group will specify a mechanism to allow clients to both view and send
email from a server over a single HTTPS channel with minimal round
trips. A single protocol for receipt and submission will resolve long-
standing difficulties users face setting up clients to talk to servers.

The protocol will support push notification of changes using the
mechanism defined in RFC 8030. This will give mobile clients benefits in
terms of battery life and network usage. It will also support push
notifications via server-sent events
(https://www.w3.org/TR/eventsource/) for direct connection to clients
that can support persistent TCP connections.

Once draft-ietf-jmap-core and draft-ietf-jmap-mail have been completed,
taking into account the value to client software of having a single
authentication method and single endpoint for all its interactions with
a server, the working group will work on other extension for related data
types, including (but not limited to) calendars, contacts and files.

Other extensions may be created to allow for access to advanced features
provided by some mail servers, for example any additional parts of SIEVE,
IMAP, SMTP submission, as well as for transport of JMAP over different
protocols than https.

Work on JMAP extensions will be bound by the following constraints:

1) The work of this group is limited to developing a protocol for a
   client synchronising data with a server. Any server-to-server issues
   are out of scope for this working group.

2) Object models will use existing IETF work where possible, for
   example the JSCalendar work being done in the CALEXT working group
   will for the basis for jmap-calendar.

3) JMAP Extensions will be built following the core principles:

  3.1) The server will not be required to perform work not explicitly
       requested by the client, and the default SHOULD always be the
       mode which requires the least server work.

  3.2) The client can discover limits enforced by the server on any
       resources or request complexity.

  3.3) Where side effects generated by the server are optional, the
       protocol will default to no side effects, and the client must
       explicitly request that those side effects happen (for example:
       sending a calendar invitation or reply when updating an event)

The working group will deliver the following:

 - a specification based on JSCalendar for JMAP access to calendars

 - a specification for JMAP access to contacts, either defining a new
   JSON format for contacts, or working with another working group on
   developing the format first.

 - a specification for JMAP access to a filesystem tree which can be
   integrated with the jmap-core upload mechanism.

 - other extensions which the working group considers related to email
   and compatible with the constraints listed above.
