(1) The type of RFC requests is Proposed Standard.  The title page
currently says "Standards Track".

(2) Document Announcement Writeup

Technical Summary

  JMAP-Mail specifies a data model for synchronising email data
  with a server using the core protocol defined in
  draft-ietf-jmap-core.

  JMAP-Mail is the first user of the generic mechanism described
  in the core protocol.

Working Group Summary

  The initial proposal for JMAP-Mail included a special "Outbox"
  folder for sending mail.  This has been changed to use a new
  object called "EmailSubmission" instead - which has been tested
  and is in use at FastMail.

  The working group also rewroked the data model considerably.
  This data model includes a simplified set of views into the full
  MIME data structure to allow easier client development, while
  still giving the full power of the stucture where required.

  This work has been done concurrently with the EXTRA working group
  which is extending RFC3501 (IMAP4), with an eye to keeping both
  email access protocols compatible with each other.

Document Quality

  The only known implementations of the full protocol have been
  done by FastMail staff, but there exist multiple implementations
  of earlier drafts, and their authors have read the current
  drafts - they're just waiting until publication to update to the
  latest version.  Both client and server implementations are
  available as open-source.

  The JMAP working group is small, but there have been multiple
  people who have read the document carefully - Chris Newman who
  is now listed as an author gave particularly detailed reviews.

  The authors of the various parts of the FastMail stack that are
  now implemented on this spec, and of the two test suites covering
  the spec, have also found multiple issues in the last 6 months
  which have fed back into the final document.

  Multiple email server vendors have indicated their intention to
  either add JMAP to their existing servers, or to build new
  services on top of the JMAP data model.

Personnel

  The Document Shepherd is Bron Gondwana and the Responsible
  Area Director is Alexey Melnikov.

(3) The document has had a complete read through of version 10 by the
Document Shepherd, which led to a handful of clarification questions
that made it into verison 11.  I have also implemented most of it and
reviewed code from others implementing other parts.

(4) With a document of this size, there's always a possibility that we
missed something important, but multiple reviewers with long-term experience
in these kinds of protocols have been over the documents, including nit-picky
test writers.  I'm confident that it's implementable as specified.

(5) The main review has come from the EXTRA working group, which has
many members in common.  There has also been review from security
experts who suggested possible risks and mitigations.

(6) The Area Director has been heavily involved in the working group,
there are no specific concerns with the document that I'm aware of.

(7) Yes, each author listed at any point on both the current and earlier
drafts has been contacted and confirmed that they have no disclosures.

(8) There have been no IPR disclosures filed.

(9) The working group is small, but everyone has spoken.  There's have been
no objections to any of the recent changes, and there's full consensus of
the group.

(10) Nobody has threatened any appeals or objections.

(11) ID nits found long lines, non-example domains, and umarked code blocks.

(12) There are no formal review areas required.

(13) All references within this document been identified as
either normative or informative.

(14) There is a normative reference to draft-ietf-jmap-core which will
require publication before this document.

(15) There are no downward normative references references.

(16) Publication of this document will update RFC5788 by renaming
the IANA registry created in that document, and also adding an extra
column to the registry detailing the use for each entry.

(17) The IANA considerations sections requests that the registry
from RFC5788 be altered, and also specifies some new entries and
the changes to be made for all existing entries.
This document also extends the registry defined in
draft-ietf-jmap-core with additional entries.

(18) There are no changes required to expert review in this document.

(19) The formal sections are JSON.  One of the authors recently
tested all the examples in the document to be parseable, and
most have been copied directly from network dumps out of
working systems using the protocol.


